README.md, before:

# langchain4j-local-rag-sample

This is a simple RAG service running everything locally 
that uses Vespa or OpenSearch as the VectorStore and an ollama model.

NOTE: **The OpenSearch implementation is still work-in-progress and is not yet ready to be used.**

## Runtime Requirements


### Ollama model running locally

Install [ollama](https://ollama.ai/download)

The [default configuration](src/main/resources/rag-sample.conf) is using the [mistral:7b](https://ollama.ai/library/mistral):
```shell
ollama pull mistral:7b
```

To list your local ollama models:
```shell
ollama list

# For more details on the models do:
curl -s localhost:11434/api/tags | jq .
```

### (option 1; default) Vespa 


#### Start Vespa cluster

You need to start a Vespa version 8 cluster:

```shell
docker run --detach \
  --name vespa \
  --hostname vespa-tutorial \
  --publish 8080:8080 \
  --publish 19071:19071 \
  --publish 19092:19092 \
  --publish 19050:19050 \
  vespaengine/vespa:8
```

Note: the 19050 port is not absolutely necessary, but has a nice
[status page](http://localhost:19050/clustercontroller-status/v1/llm) 
for the Vespa cluster once you have your Vespa doc-types in place.

#### Deploy Vespa application
Install the vespa-cli if needed:
```shell
brew install vespa-cli
```

Run from the root of this repo:
```shell
vespa deploy --wait 300 vespa
```
If you used the above docker command to expose the 19050
port then you can monitor the Cluster status on this page:
http://127.0.0.1:19050/clustercontroller-status/v1/llm


#### Stopping Vespa

To kill (and delete all data from) the Vespa cluster just:
```shell
docker rm -f vespa
```


#### Delete all Vespa docs
```shell
# Delete all books
curl -X DELETE \
  "http://localhost:8080/document/v1/embeddings/books/docid?selection=true&cluster=llm"

# Delete all news
curl -X DELETE \
  "http://localhost:8080/document/v1/embeddings/news/docid?selection=true&cluster=llm"
```


### (Option 2) OpenSearch [WIP]

Follow [the instructions](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#run-opensearch-in-a-docker-container) 
to set up a single node OpenSearch server with docker.

Using docker-compose:
```shell
cd opensearch
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/2.12/assets/examples/docker-compose.yml

# Setup your admin password
echo "OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=$OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD" > .env

# Start the containers as detached daemons:
docker-compose up -d
```

Check that OpenSearch is up and running:
```shell
curl -ku "admin:$OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD" https://localhost:9200

# If the docker containers do not start then check the server logs:
docker logs opensearch-node1
```

Things that might go wrong above are:
- Not enough [strong admin password](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/6f779cef0c78efd3dc0f45f9dd30eee3339a65b4/_security/configuration/yaml.md#password-settings)
- Not setting [the sysctl limits](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#important-host-settings) 

Please set the `OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` env variable to a 
[strong password](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/6f779cef0c78efd3dc0f45f9dd30eee3339a65b4/_security/configuration/yaml.md#password-settings) 
as OpenSearch will not start otherwise.

Open http://localhost:5601 and login as admin with the `OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` password you created above.

## BUILD

Make sure you set the [configuration](src/main/resources/rag-sample.conf) to what you want to use.

```shell
mvn clean compile package
```

## USAGE

```shell
# Populate the Vector store
./target/langchain4j-local-rag-sample-0.0.1-assembly/bin/rag-sample-create-embeddings.sh

# Chat 
./target/langchain4j-local-rag-sample-0.0.1-assembly/bin/rag-sample-cli.sh
```

### Call GRPC Service

```shell
# Start GRPC server
./target/langchain4j-local-rag-sample-0.0.1-assembly/bin/rag-sample-grpc-service.sh

# Call the service
grpcurl --plaintext -d '{"question": "What is the Foundation?"}' 127.0.0.1:4242 ragsample.RagSample.Ask
```

## Misc

Some alternative prompts:

```properties
prompt.template = """You are a helpful assistant, conversing with a user about the subjects contained in a set of documents.
Use the information from the DOCUMENTS section to provide accurate answers. If unsure or if the answer
isn't found in the DOCUMENTS section, simply state that you don't know the answer.

QUESTION:
{{userMessage}}

DOCUMENTS:
{{contents}}
"""
```

```properties
prompt.template = """Context information is below.

---------------------
{{contents}}
---------------------

Given the context information above and no prior knowledge, provide answers based on the below query.

{{userMessage}}
"""

```

Commit message:

Add section about epub books

README.md, after:

# langchain4j-local-rag-sample

This is a simple RAG service running everything locally 
that uses Vespa or OpenSearch as the VectorStore and an ollama model.

NOTE: **The OpenSearch implementation is still work-in-progress and is not yet ready to be used.**

## Runtime Requirements

### Epub books

The default setup will read epub books from the [`books`](books) directory for the RAG.

Please copy your favorite epub books in there with filenames ending with `.epub`.


### Ollama model running locally

Install [ollama](https://ollama.ai/download)

The [default configuration](src/main/resources/rag-sample.conf) is using the [mistral:7b](https://ollama.ai/library/mistral):
```shell
ollama pull mistral:7b
```

To list your local ollama models:
```shell
ollama list

# For more details on the models do:
curl -s localhost:11434/api/tags | jq .
```

### (option 1; default) Vespa 


#### Start Vespa cluster

You need to start a Vespa version 8 cluster:

```shell
docker run --detach \
  --name vespa \
  --hostname vespa-tutorial \
  --publish 8080:8080 \
  --publish 19071:19071 \
  --publish 19092:19092 \
  --publish 19050:19050 \
  vespaengine/vespa:8
```

Note: the 19050 port is not absolutely necessary, but has a nice
[status page](http://localhost:19050/clustercontroller-status/v1/llm) 
for the Vespa cluster once you have your Vespa doc-types in place.

#### Deploy Vespa application
Install the vespa-cli if needed:
```shell
brew install vespa-cli
```

Run from the root of this repo:
```shell
vespa deploy --wait 300 vespa
```
If you used the above docker command to expose the 19050
port then you can monitor the Cluster status on this page:
http://127.0.0.1:19050/clustercontroller-status/v1/llm


#### Stopping Vespa

To kill (and delete all data from) the Vespa cluster just:
```shell
docker rm -f vespa
```


#### Delete all Vespa docs
```shell
# Delete all books
curl -X DELETE \
  "http://localhost:8080/document/v1/embeddings/books/docid?selection=true&cluster=llm"

# Delete all news
curl -X DELETE \
  "http://localhost:8080/document/v1/embeddings/news/docid?selection=true&cluster=llm"
```


### (Option 2) OpenSearch [WIP]

Follow [the instructions](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#run-opensearch-in-a-docker-container) 
to set up a single node OpenSearch server with docker.

Using docker-compose:
```shell
cd opensearch
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/2.12/assets/examples/docker-compose.yml

# Setup your admin password
echo "OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=$OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD" > .env

# Start the containers as detached daemons:
docker-compose up -d
```

Check that OpenSearch is up and running:
```shell
curl -ku "admin:$OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD" https://localhost:9200

# If the docker containers do not start then check the server logs:
docker logs opensearch-node1
```

Things that might go wrong above are:
- Not enough [strong admin password](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/6f779cef0c78efd3dc0f45f9dd30eee3339a65b4/_security/configuration/yaml.md#password-settings)
- Not setting [the sysctl limits](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#important-host-settings) 

Please set the `OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` env variable to a 
[strong password](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/6f779cef0c78efd3dc0f45f9dd30eee3339a65b4/_security/configuration/yaml.md#password-settings) 
as OpenSearch will not start otherwise.

Open http://localhost:5601 and login as admin with the `OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` password you created above.

## BUILD

Make sure you set the [configuration](src/main/resources/rag-sample.conf) to what you want to use.

```shell
mvn clean compile package
```

## USAGE

```shell
# Populate the Vector store
./target/langchain4j-local-rag-sample-0.0.1-assembly/bin/rag-sample-create-embeddings.sh

# Chat 
./target/langchain4j-local-rag-sample-0.0.1-assembly/bin/rag-sample-cli.sh
```

### Call GRPC Service

```shell
# Start GRPC server
./target/langchain4j-local-rag-sample-0.0.1-assembly/bin/rag-sample-grpc-service.sh

# Call the service
grpcurl --plaintext -d '{"question": "What is the Foundation?"}' 127.0.0.1:4242 ragsample.RagSample.Ask
```

## Misc

Some alternative prompts:

```properties
prompt.template = """You are a helpful assistant, conversing with a user about the subjects contained in a set of documents.
Use the information from the DOCUMENTS section to provide accurate answers. If unsure or if the answer
isn't found in the DOCUMENTS section, simply state that you don't know the answer.

QUESTION:
{{userMessage}}

DOCUMENTS:
{{contents}}
"""
```

```properties
prompt.template = """Context information is below.

---------------------
{{contents}}
---------------------

Given the context information above and no prior knowledge, provide answers based on the below query.

{{userMessage}}
"""

```
